much to our liking. Of course, it was just Joe and me
by this time, the kids who moved on from them in
Tennessee. Okay? And, uh, uh, Roy, uh, they were
wanting help with Ray's absence for all those
months. Yeah. Because they had to wait for me to
come. They were very patient about that. I
couldn't shake loose from Tennessee until March,
and I guess Ray had died by the fall. And so we had a
lot to do and a lot of catching up to do. And they had,
the staff had done really well, I thought when we
got here, about filling the gap, you know. So they
held a meeting to play a little catch up for it. And
they said it'd take two years to catch up. I didn't
think so. and
it didn't take that long to get to West New York. Not
to waver like
the old me, but it's just the way I saw things going
together with the suppliers, and that was a key
factor in getting things done or caught up. Had I
had to use strange suppliers, it probably would
have taken a couple of days. But I was allowed to...
I looked at the situation,
and I was not hampered by anything like that. Okay,
tell me now, in terms of book publishing in the
University of Florida, what was your role? How do
you fit into that, into the process of book
publishing? Where? Okay. As though you were
writing for the uninformed, and I am uninformed,
too, so. Given the scenario of a manuscript in its
natural flow to a publishing house, it would
normally go through the appraisal process, or
acquisition process, and the appraisal process,
and then acceptance, and the polishing, and then
into editorial, finally, and once that's
accomplished, into design. Okay. Okay. And, when
you design a book, especially for Universal
Effects, what are you looking for, what are you
trying to do with a book? First thing. is becoming.
In my career, it always has been. Not to say that
that's the first thing that needs to be dealt with.
It's the scholarship that is vital to the
publication of any scholarly book. But it's not
always dealt with that way. Sometimes it's a
political decision. to satisfy other pressures
on administrative types. Sometimes it's, well,
any number of reasons. But any press that's
protected in politics is going to be a freer, more
honest press. How did this one fit in? This one
here? I think if you go back and read that thing that
Frank did in his statement about the press when it
began. Type 22, I think. uh yeah and then he did that
at the beginning thing i've got that yeah and you
know in there i believe he said something about
Yes. Well,
yes.
Yes. Because the deal he worked, as I understood
it, was on that basis, and Jack Williams, as I got
out, was very much in tune with that. Now, was it
still that way you think when you got here? Did you
sense much? I didn't sense much external
pressure. There was a little flash every now and
then, but Lloyd didn't know that. And that wasn't
common stuff. That's just vibes we'd feel, you
know, down the hall. And so, no, I think that I was, I
was good at about as free a hand as doing what I do,
did, as anybody. But I'd have to say that I was given
that early at Oklahoma. I was allowed that
privilege right on through. I guess I didn't
disappoint too many people or raise too many
animals. Again, when you're doing a university
principal, you've got to think of economy, cost.
What else are you thinking about? Well, assuming
the proper organization has been done within the
text, then It's up to the designer to take that
apart or analyze what's there and apply it in a
typographic kind of way that will hold through.
But if, for example, you're going to be doing a
series of books
based on a preliminary design or a design used on a
first product, then it has to be... Fit the series,
okay. Yeah, it's got to fit the series, and it's got
to be flexible in the concept that will allow
variations that may or may not come. Okay. So
you've got to think way on that front. Now, when you
got into A&M Publishing, did you feel that the
series were sort of pre-prescribing your design
work substantially? Well, naturally. It
provides limits. And if you know what the current
limits are, then you don't have much of a problem.
You can see what your contemporaries are doing.
And then you would depart or stay with them.
But again, economics
are always a factor. I don't lie, but cost
overrides. And I always
view
my accuracy or my evaluations as good or bad based
on how closely I come to that. If I can get under the
forecast budget, I do
it. I don't lie to you. you get caught. And so your
best protection
is to have a job with analysis and manuscript and
marketing and what you can do with the other books
that are in the line, how much creative time you can
factor in as the other books are moving along,
which is an item that gets lost in the heat of an
energetic acquisition and can damage your
performance in the marketplace if you don't look
at the goods as promised. So you have to be, some
people just want to drop the project as soon as
their part's through and speed on to the next thing
and others are left with the details all through
it. Now, was your job also basically to make the
printing contract arrangements and submit the
book for years or send it where it had to go? Yes. Did
you use bid processes or did you just go well?
Right. State regulations required bids within
the framework defined by state purchasing. And
this was true at Oklahoma, Tennessee, and Texas.
So you really managed production? That's right.
Period. Right. Okay.
Without interference. Occasionally, well, more
than occasionally, we always had input from other
departments. But we didn't always take it for
reasons of our own. We weren't bound to get caught.
and finally squabbles over how to do them once the
manuscript was turned over. Now, when you came,
were there weekly meetings on something on an
organized basis or a regular, erratic basis, or
how did y'all work together? It wasn't
particularly structured. I'd say on an as-needed
basis with Lloyd. He responded to that. I think I
always felt that he had confidence and the people
that with one thing north said for example not in
the ward law one law had weekly meetings but those
meetings were instructed and he told you he gave
you information but he did not solicit
information yeah you got your marching on which i
thought was interesting that is interesting yeah
He had the rules. And what you had to do was learn
them. Then he expected you to work within the
rules. And if you didn't, then you got your hands
slapped. I mean it wasn't his business of meeting
regularly and dictating things or making all the
decisions. He had enough confidence to And that
was a major difference. And when Noah said that
Warbaugh did not delegate, everybody felt good
about it, but I think because Warbaugh had
legendary diplomatic qualities about him or
something. That's okay. I've heard that. You
know, they like this. But when I was in the Army, I
always liked having decisions made for me, too. It
was a very simple thing, just to march along in the
crowd. Yeah, Lloyd was not that way. You didn't
have to think. Lloyd was not that way. Is that
right? I think Lloyd was welcomed. Somebody would
make that decision. That would make decisions in
your own area and follow through and be
accountable for it. Okay, now, once that decision
was made, how did Lloyd fit into that? Was he highly
supportive, unsupportive, or watched you to see
if it would work? He always, at first, he wanted me
to stand by him and see if it would work because I was
new. I'm new in quantity. I don't care how many
years I take. He wanted to see how that worked. I
think he learned that from California. But I think
I saw nothing but trust from him to me. He had faith
in me. We didn't have any problems with that. Was
there, under his regime, I don't want to call it
regime, but anyway, directorship, was there
pretty good accord in the team, in the staff, in the
group that got into collaboration
or something? I know there were sparks flew here
and there as we went along in certain areas. And
Lloyd was a gentle man, I always felt. Although I'm
sure he could have been hard as nails. He had been
Chief Executioner out on the West Coast at some
point, I've heard. So I'm sure he was quite capable
of dealing with any serious problem in the right
way. But I always, I didn't have any questions. He
was always supportive to me and was cordial and
likable. knew so many, we had so many people that we
knew in common from the association. Yeah, the
whole world. Yeah, we had a good rapport. He and I
did. We talked about things and places and people
that no one else was talking about. Basically, it
was a happy trip, pretty much. I enjoyed it. What
were key
projects or books? Do you remember some titles
that particularly got culture fans thinking?
Yes, the one that got laid
on me was Tom Lee's
book.
He essentially just turned that manuscript over
to me and said, here, you do this book. And that
helped me a lot. I had to be very firm about some
matters that were ongoing during the course of
that book. handling with the office. See, I was
outside my normal role, and I handled it. And I had
to function. Even in some ways, it's
developmental. Developmental, I think. Now,
that would be the problem where Lloyd is not the
strong warlord. I see what you're talking about. I
know what you're talking about. But Lloyd wanted
to delegate that. That's right. They thought he
was His idea was clear that Tom Lee was a tough
cookie. That's right. We're only going to stay out
of the way. Yeah. He said, here, Jim, you take it. I
can understand that. You know, uh-oh. You don't
have to elaborate. I understand it. That's good.
And it was a little frightening at first because I
didn't know Tom Lee except by registration from
the Oklahoma Press, the great southwestern
painter. And it turned out in that case to be a, It
was a terrific relationship. I mean it was great.
Now what else besides that? We'll pick that up too.
That's what I want to do is flag some key items and
kind of make a little to-do about them. Yeah, that
was a great Easter. That really was. And let's see,
what else?
He
was just here, he and I had been in there two years,
there, um, 86 and 77. And I was trying to think,
where did Kathleen and Jean, on that, on leave go?
And, where did we go, um,
Did you feel
like in these years the
press
is really moving ahead? and getting pretty good
support from the faculty, administration, and
the committee. You felt pretty good about it.
Yeah. It was so far beyond what I'd been tested to at
either previous post. And then, my gosh, we were,
well, healed as far as the financial support was
concerned. And it wasn't until later, when we got
signed, That thread of having to arrive on our
income came to bed. And that was never, ever in June
until Mowgli years. And, uh, that I ever heard of, I
may have been going on, I just didn't know about it.
But gosh, we, we had, the university gave us, or
alumni association, gave us what we needed to do a
job.
And that was the real question, as far as I knew
about this. That's where it was, yeah, and that's
really important. Yeah, that support was just
staggering. I just couldn't believe what I was
hearing. Yeah. Wonderful. Wonderful. Now, Lloyd
left, when, I'm sorry, when did he leave? It was
1987. Okay. And then Stetter comes in about that
time, and Stetter stays how long ago? 1992? Three?
Four?
That's how long it was? Now, was there a disruption
in the process as much, or what was the key
ingredient in those years, as you recall? in terms
of changing impetus within the press or in the
publishing business generally?
I'm really looking for some broad rather than
specific. I think that we went on through those
years. You can't divorce yourself and your
personality. It's
not a predefined thing that happens. There's got
to be many things that happen. And Rick had some
Western hits and production back down. He had a
good judgment about
design, I always thought. He functioned as an
editor, and a marketer,
and so
on, and he didn't know that before he came. and
everything that
went with that. He was an enlisted
man, I think, and I certainly could sympathize
with that. But at a time when the Army wasn't really
the Army I knew, that was a circumstance that may
have, some of that may have come with it. It was an
unsettled time. Values changed an awful lot in
those years. And so I saw people come back from
that. That was a big change that I saw. Do you feel
like the press, the direction of book publishing
changed? Yes, it did. I think the quality of
scholarship itself changed from what I could see.
the
old heads were fading away and replaced by these
new people on faculties with a different set of
values and where this didn't matter because they
always had them and of course this would we would
see this i would see it so many people my age or older
You see that come through in the manuscripts. In
the times that the material dealt with and the ways
they were dealt with, the office plan changed. Not
for the better, in my view, but for the better.
Well, that's a good comment. I came with this a long
time ago. And you might have been disappointed
with some of the things you got. They were
disappointed in me, too. To see what I'm saying, it
spilled out on my desk. We had one. I got thrown out.
I did.
Anyway... So you left where? Where did you leave
your parents? Here. Actually, I started... Rick
and I talked about this. That's right. And
I restructured my job and divided it down the
middle. Which, interestingly, I proposed they do
it in Oklahoma when I left up there in 1968. And they
did. They divided it into two roles,
production manager and designer. And so you took
the job as a designer with you. I just gathered that
part of the function up. And there was no real
reason that Rick and I could return, even my
sister, for me to stay if it wasn't necessary. And,
you know, we had confidence in being... Now, had
you been taking your, your, uh, your rest of your
time before you left, or were you still on the full
payroll? You know, I took, in changing the job
rate, we reduced my salary to 60% of what it had
been. And I assumed the role of designer and or
design manager, whatever. That's where the
importance of an even flow of manuscripts and
editorial to design comes into play. the smoother
and regular that bottle remains the easier and
better it is to design because time is
forecastable
and you can adjust some books require more design
and so it's not a matter of just sitting down and
saying it takes seven months to do a book 40 books a
year that's X months of going to that, you know, and
working that out. So, uh... You were both on kind of
the same track about that time, because I was, you
know, phasing out of university too, I don't know.
Half time. Okay, yeah. That's basically what
you're doing. Yeah. And that's what I ended up
doing. And with the agreement,
uh, I understood. And
when did
you
actually
take
off? It
was in June of 92. And then you would stay on for the
rest of your life? I stayed on until August of 94.
That's interesting. I don't see any
of that.
It worked well. Rick was pleased. At a point, right
there at the initial point, in June of 1902, I said,
Rick, I'm going to be down for a month or more, at
least, in this transitional period. So,
knowing that ahead of time, Susan and I, we got what
we could out of it, in the way of incoming
manuscripts and playing late games around them. I
designed them, I had them seen up until about ten,
and I squeezed a few of them. And then the others
that were anticipated were short during that
downtime. Anticipated? Well,
I was ready to,
sometime in August I'll be ready to do some catch up
here. So, whatever. Well, I think you really
wanted to. research
and doing manuscripts in that summer into the
fall. And so there was non-productivity if you
were coming through. But if you were production
reports, you'd see exactly what happened. And
editorial arrangements of problems with it. It
wasn't necessarily their fault, it was just the
way things sort of fell together, or didn't fall
together. And author problems, and authors got, I
don't know, I don't know, could be sick and just not
get the manuscripts in as planned, or out of the
country, God knows what. So it was the end of the
year before we started resuming.
So if you had some kind of a concern, and you think
about this in the weeks that are next to come, and it
confuses on how you would characterize the Texas
A&M University class among the world of college
professors, is there any kind of special
identification or description or
characterization? Think about that. It's known
for just the type of reaction that most people have
to that. It's known
for nice art books,
colorful books, and maybe more of that than the
heavy scholarly numbers like an Ivy League press.
Presidential papers did not hurt the press. I
think the Bush papers, I assume they did. I hope so.
If they did, it'll hurt the press. I hope we can
get... Yeah,
I
don't know
what's happening next week. I'm going to talk to
Noel and Tom and just say, come on, stop us. Yeah, I
know.